---
title: hety
date: 2020-05-19 17:30:00 Z
author: Anubhav Gupta
comments: true
layout: post
---

<style>
    header{
      
      
     background-color: rgba(249, 241 ,241 , 0.7);
         font-weight: bolder;
         font-size: larger;
         font-family: fantasy;
        }
    
      div{
        background-image: url("https://i.postimg.cc/y6fw6m3Y/yoann-siloine-dyax-Q-ao-GWY-unsplash.jpg");
      }
      </style>

**post 17** <br/>
**Dated**19/5/2020<br/>
**Debt Funds** <br/>
**snippet** Today we will find uncover all the major types of debt funds<br/>

Following along our discussion today we will give a look to the safer side. Here we will learn about various debt funds and the underlying assets of a debt fund. <br/>
The debt funds can be of several types and can hold various instruments as their underlying assets, these are as follows<br/><br/>
1.     These can be classified based on the time duration of their scope that can be planed according to a **smart Goal** <br/><br/>
A)	**Long Duration Funds**  
Long Duration Fund : These mutual funds select bonds/debt for investment such that average maturity (remaining) period for portfolio is higher than 7 years. Longer duration funds may provide higher returns but are more sensitive to interest rate changes. <br/>
 
Suitable For : Investors who want to invest money for longer duration but prefer less riskier assets compared to equity funds. <br/><br/>
B)	**Medium Duration Funds** Medium duration funds are debt funds that lend to quality companies for 3 or more years. The longer tenure of loan means these funds returns are subject to the interest rate changes that borrowing companies undergo due to positive or negative economic cycles over time. These are also more tax-efficient than Bank Fixed Deposits when investment tenure is 3 years or more as these funds qualify for **indexation benefit**.<br/>
C)	** Short term Funds** These are probably most useful products of debt category because these give us a way to park our idle money without any major risk, These lend to companies for a period of 1 to 3 years. These funds mostly take exposure only in quality companies that have proven record of repaying their loans on time as well as have sufficient cash flows from their business operations to justify the borrowing <br/><br/>
D)	**Liquid Funds** are high liquidity open-ended income schemes that invest in debt and money market instruments such as government securities, treasury bills and call money among others. These instruments have a maximum maturity period of 91 days and are considered safe because they mitigate interest rate volatility risk. These give a handsome and cool alternative to a bank account, but a bank give us insurance of 5 lakhs on deposits under DICGC (Deposit Insurance and credit guarantee corporation) These don’t give that insurance but are still very good at risk mitigation and I would personally favor a liquid fund instead of Savings account even if I need  to park my money for a week.<br/><br/>.
E) 	**Dynamic Bond Funds** These are the funds those adjust the time duration of underlying assets according to market status and help generating higher returns. Here the role and decision making of a fund manager is very crucial and major chunk of performance is based on him.<br/> <br/>
F) 	**Gilt Funds** There are very low risk funds that hold gilt securities/ government securities issued by the central government and state governments, hence these are seen with minimum risk and these too give handsome returns of about 13-15% annually.<br/><br/>
 
Now after reading about majority of the flavors we often get confused about which to select and when to select. This dilemma can be solved by analyzing our initial smart goal. We need to analyze the amount of return that we need and we have to analyze the risk taking capabilities of our emotional self and our goal. Like for a Goal I would invest heavily in **Equity** in the initial phase because I would have a lot of time if anything goes wrong and I would have a chance to remake my strategy if anything goes wrong. But this wont be the case if the due date is just 6 months, and I’ve lost a major chunk in equity because I can not wait for market to recover. To avoid this we should follow risk mitigation where we keep increasing the debt segment of our investments as we approach our deadline. See investing money is like making **Halwa**, we have to keep on mixing it or else it will burn and get distasteful. <br/>
Hope this gives you something new<br/><br/>
Thanks for reading<br/>
Anubhav Gupta.



{% if page.comments %}

<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://https-gupta-anubhav12-github-io-fortheloveofnifty.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>

{% endif %}