---
title: P15-Mutual-Funds
date: 2020-05-16 17:30:00 Z
layout: post
author: Anubhav Gupta
comments: true
---

<style>
    header{
      
      
     background-color: rgba(249, 241 ,241 , 0.7);
         font-weight: bolder;
         font-size: larger;
         font-family: fantasy;
        }
    
      div{
        background-image: url("https://i.postimg.cc/y6fw6m3Y/yoann-siloine-dyax-Q-ao-GWY-unsplash.jpg");
      }
      </style>

**post 15** <br/>
**Dated**16/5/2020<br/>
**Mutual Funds** <br/>
**snippet** Mutual Funds have a lot to offer read more to find out <br/>

Mutual funds are probably the best option for mediocre investments and they are affordable and easy to learn. Mutual funds as said earlier are like a ice cream studio with a lot of flavours. These flavours offer us to invest in a variety of debt and equity type funds <br/> 
But wait no one might have told you that you can also use mutual funds like a savings **Bank Account**. Banks give us around 3.5 percent after saving their spread on a regular savings account but a Liquid Debt fund can give you about 6-7% with an insta withdraw facility where we can withdraw the money in half an hour of order placement.<br/>
Hence we can use mutual funds like a Bank account with selective funds like Liquid funds that invest out money in instruments of money market like treasury bills and short term G-Secs.<br/><br/>
Mutual Funds are also an alertnative of FD, yes a low duration debt or guilt fund is normally risk free and gives returns ranging from 8-11% whereas the Bank FDR barely crosses 6% in rare cases.<br/>
there's still more in the Ice cream studio, You can get a **SIP**(systematic Investment Plan) registered with a mutual fund of your choice and can get a nice investment portfolio. See a SIP is not a mutual fund but an investment strategy.In a SIP we promise to pay a agreed amount each month to generate a saving corpus for a goal like- Child's education or getting a house or a car. But the goal should be **SMART**. The sip works on the principal of average pricing and is shown by the following example:-<br/><br/>
One day **Bunty** bought 4 pencils worth $10 rach and he expected the price to rise to 11 in subsequent days. Ladoo on other hand just brought a single pencil and waited for next day, next day the price rose to 11, Bunty was happy to see profits,Ladoo patiently bought another pemcil for $11. the next day price fell to rs 8 and laddu again bought a pencil, Bunty at this time started to worry for his investment, the next day price went to $9 and Ladoo got another pencil.<br/>
now if we analyse the position of Bunty, He has invested 40 rupees for 4 pencils that today value around 36, Whereas Laduu has bought 4 pencils for **38** and the today's value is of 36. so who stands in a better position.<br/>
this can now be seen as a case between mutual funds where one investor does a huge impulsive lumpsum transaction whereas the wiser is patient and investes periodically, Clearly now when the price of pencil will reach $10 the **initial value** laddoo would be in profit whereas bunty would be at a neutral position.<br/><br/>
But I've heared that money gets locked in mutual funds??<br/>
Well there are several types of funds that define their own terms of operation that should be read and anayzed before investing, like<br/>
1. open/Close ended funds: some funds are close ended hence they allow entry for a short period of time, exmaple a fund gets opened for a window of a week then it would be available for purchase on only those days, whereas in a open ended fund there is anytime entry.<br/>     
2. Exit Load : This thing is a must to check before investing in a fund. The exit load is a percent of penalty that would be levied on a your investment or a part of your investment if you withdraw before a particular tenure, this can be between 15 days to several years.<br/>
3. Lockin Period: If there is a lockin period termed in a fund then that would lock your amount and you can not wihdraw before the lockin, Sometimes there is a partial lockin like you cannot withdraw more than 40% of amount before a period.<br/>

So mutual funds sahi to hai but<br/>
Read all scheme related documents carefully<br/><br/>
Happy investing and stay safe.
{% if page.comments %}

<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>
(function() { // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
s.src = 'https://https-gupta-anubhav12-github-io-fortheloveofnifty.disqus.com/embed.js';
s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
(d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
})();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>

{% endif %}